# TrainProjects
Data Analysis projects

Project | Descriptions | Tools | URL
--- | --- | --- | ---
Yandex music analisys | Research if there are any differencies in music listening between Moscow and Saint-Petersburg users | exploratory data analysis, Python, Pandas | [Music](https://github.com/Belchona/TrainProjects/tree/main/0.%20Music)  
Bank borrowers research | It is necessary to understand whether the marital status and the number of the client's children affect the loan repayment on time. Input data from the customer - statistics on the paying capacity of customers. The research results will be used to build a credit scoring model | data pre-processing, exploratory data analysis, Python, Pandas, lemmatization, data categorization | [Bank](https://github.com/Belchona/TrainProjects/tree/main/1.%20Bank) 
Research of apartments for sale | An archive of advertisements for the sale of apartments in St. Petersburg and neighboring settlements for several years is presented. You need to learn how to determine the market value of real estate objects. The task is to set the parameters. This will allow building an automated system: it will track anomalies and fraudulent activity | data pre-processing, exploratory data analysis, Python, Pandas | [Flats](https://github.com/Belchona/TrainProjects/tree/main/2.%20Flats)
Determination of a promising tariff for a telecom company| Clients are offered two tariff plans: "Smart" and "Ultra". To adjust the advertising budget, the commercial department wants to understand which tariff brings the most money. It is necessary to analyze customer behavior and draw a conclusion - which tariff is better | Exploratory data analysis, Python, Pandas, Visualization: matplotlib, statistical analysis: scipy, variance, standard deviation  | [Telecom](https://github.com/Belchona/TrainProjects/tree/main/3.%20Telecom)
Reveal patterns that determine the success of the game | This will allow you to bet on a potentially popular product and plan advertising campaigns. | Exploratory data analysis, Python, Pandas, Creating a user profile, Visualization: seaborn, matplotlib, statistical analysis: scipy | [Games](https://github.com/Belchona/TrainProjects/tree/main/4.%20Games)
Airline analytics | Choose the top 10 cities by the number of flights; Build graphs: aircraft models and the number of flights, cities and the number of flights, top 10 cities and the number of flights | Exploratory data analysis, Python, Pandas, Visualization: seaborn, matplotlib, Math: numpy | [Avia](https://github.com/Belchona/TrainProjects/tree/main/5.%20Avia)
Help marketers optimize costs in Afisha | Afisha - help marketers optimize marketing expenses. Identified traffic sources from which users made the most purchases during the study period. Calculation MAU, MAU, WAU, revenue, average receipt, average MAX, and average paying MAU by source and platform. Cohort analysis. Payback of cohorts, CAC, LTV, Retention, ROI. Determined the effectiveness of source calculated the average, average, and median time after which users start buying.  Recommendations are given for purchasing traffic from sources across platforms | Exploratory data analysis, Python, Pandas, Visualization: seaborn, matplotlib  | [Afisha](https://github.com/Belchona/TrainProjects/tree/main/6.%20Afisha)
Marketing AB test examination | There have prepared a list of hypotheses for increasing revenue. Prioritize hypotheses, run an A / B test, and analyze the results. | Exploratory data analysis, Python, Pandas, Visualization: seaborn, matplotlib, ICE/RICE prioritization, statistical analysis: statistical significance, scipy, statistical significance of differences between groups, Math: numpy, math, cumulative revenue, cumulative average check, cumulative conversion | [Marketing AB](https://github.com/Belchona/TrainProjects/tree/main/7.%20AB%20test)
Moscow food market research | To open a small robot cafe in Moscow, it is necessary to assess the current state of affairs on the market - will the institution be able to gain popularity for a long time, when all onlookers have seen enough of the robotic waiters? | Exploratory data analysis, Python, Pandas, Visualization: seaborn, plotly, matplotlib, Math: numpy | [Restaurants](https://github.com/Belchona/TrainProjects/tree/main/8.%20Restaurants)
For a food startup we need to figure out how mobile app users behave | The designers wanted to change the fonts throughout the application, and the managers were afraid that the users would be unusual. We agreed to make a decision based on the results of the A / A / B test | Sales funnel. A/B experiment.  Exploratory data analysis, Python, Pandas, Visualization: seaborn, plotly, matplotlib, Math: numpy, math, Statistical analysis: scipy | [food startup](https://github.com/Belchona/TrainProjects/tree/main/9.%20Food%20application)
Analyze and prepare an action plan to retain clients of the fitness club | Namely: learn to predict the likelihood of a churn (at the next month's level) for each client; to form typical portraits of users: to highlight several of the brightest groups and to characterize their main properties; analyze the main features that most strongly affect the outflow; formulate key findings and develop recommendations to improve the quality of work with clients | exploratory data analysis, Python, Pandas, Visualization: seaborn, matplotlib, Statistical analysis, churn prediction, ML: sklearn | [Fitness club](https://github.com/Belchona/TrainProjects/tree/main/10.%20Fitness%20club)
RFM client segmentation |  Users segmentation in the online store in order to create personal offers | ML: RFM segmentation, sklearn, statistical analysis and math: numpy, scipy, exploratory data analysis,  Python, Pandas, Visualization: matplotlib | [RFM segmentation](https://github.com/Belchona/TrainProjects/tree/main/11.%20Ecommerce%20segmentation)
